# AspNetCoreSwagger (OpenApi)
<div>
    It solves the problem of generating useful documentation and help pages for Webapi.<br>
    <u>What is Swagger / Open Api?</u><br>
    It is language-agnostic specification for describing REST Apis. It allows both computer and humen to understand the capabilities of a service without any direct access to the implementation.
</div>
<div>
    <u>Swagger Spcification</u> <br>
    The core to the swagger flow is Swagger specification. by default, a document named Swagger.Json will be generated by swagger-tool chain.
</div>
<div>
    <u>Swagger UI</u> <br>
    Web based UI that provides information about the service using the generated swagger spcification. Both SwaggerBuckle and NSwag has an emmpeded version of Swagger UI
</div>
<div>
    <u>SwaggerBuckle</u><br>
    There are 3 main components in swaggerbuckle
        <ol>
        <li>Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore.Swagger - Swagger object model and midleware to expose swagger document object as Json object</li>
        <li>Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerGen - Swagger generater, that build swagger document object directly from your routes, controller and models</li>
        <li>Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerUI - An emmpeded version of Swagger Ui tool, it interpret  swagger Json to rich customizable ui</li>
        </ol>
</div>
<div>
    <u>Installtion abd usage</u><br>
    <ul>
    <li>
        install Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore - Version 5.0.0 <br>
        or search swaggerbuckle in Nuget and install it. <br>
        some time these installtion not working so add the following reference to theproject file.<br>
        <b>
            &lt;packageReference Include= "Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore" Version='5.0.0-rc2'&gt;
            &lt;packageReference Include= "Swaggerbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerUi" Version='5.0.0-rc2'&gt;
        </b>
    </li>
    <li>
        Import OpenApi model reference to startup class like below
        <pre>
            using Microsoft.OpenApi.Model;
        </pre>
        and add swagger in ConfigureService method of Startup class like below
        <pre>
            services.AddSwaggerGen(c =&gt;
            {
                c.swaggerDoc("v1", new OpenApiInfo{Title = "MyApp", Version="V1"});
            });
        </pre>
        and in Configure method use Swagger like below
        <pre>
            app.UseSwagger();
            services.AddSwaggerGen(c =&gt;
            {
                c.SwaggerDoc("v1", new OpenApiInfo { Title = "My API", Version = "v1" });
            });
        </pre>
        we can also use with details like below
        <pre>
        services.AddSwaggerGen(c =&gt;
            {
                c.SwaggerDoc("v1", new OpenApiInfo
                {
                    Version = "v1",
                    Title = "ToDo API",
                    Description = "A simple example ASP.NET Core Web API",
                    TermsOfService = new Uri("https://example.com/terms"),
                    Contact = new OpenApiContact
                    {
                        Name = "Shayne Boyer",
                        Email = string.Empty,
                        Url = new Uri("https://twitter.com/spboyer"),
                    },
                    License = new OpenApiLicense
                    {
                        Name = "Use under LICX",
                        Url = new Uri("https://example.com/license"),
                    }
                });
            });
        </pre>
    </li>
    <li>
        Now launch the app and navigate "http://localhost:port/Swagger/v1/swagger.json"  will display the json file which is swagger configuration file.
    </li>
    <li>
        Browse to "http://localhost/swagger"  will display swagger UI, that has complete documentation and sample reference to all service mehtod in the application
    </li>
</div>
